docs: add 'Crystal plugin' reference (#5797)
canonical/snapcraft: docs/reference/plugins/crystal_plugin.rst

.. _reference-crystal-plugin:

Crystal plugin
==============

The Crystal plugin builds parts whose sources are written in the Crystal programming
language.

Keywords
--------

This plugin provides the following unique keys for core20 snaps.

crystal-channel
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Type**: string

**Default**: ``latest/stable``

The Snap Store channel to install the Crystal snap from.

crystal-build-options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Type**: list of strings

**Default**: unset

The options to pass to ``shards build``.

Dependencies
------------

For core20 snaps, this plugin installs the Crystal snap and the following system packages:

* git
* make
* gcc
* pkg-config
* libssl-dev
* libxml2-dev
* libyaml-dev
* libgmp-dev
* libpcre3-dev
* libevent-dev
* libz-dev

How it works
------------

* Build the Crystal project with ``shards build``, taking into account any build options
  declared with ``crystal-build-options``.
* Copy the built executable from the snap's ``bin`` directory to the part's install directory.

> * Stage the Crystal binary's runtime dependencies.

Author: @bepri I'd appreciate a sanity check here. I did my best to make sense of the [source](https://github.com/canonical/snapcraft/blob/main/snapcraft_legacy/plugins/v2/crystal.py#L91), but I'm sure I missed some details.

> * Copy the built executable from the snap's ``bin`` directory to the part's install directory.
> * Stage the Crystal binary's runtime dependencies.

Reviewer: This is really just one step, as far as docs should go at least. I'd phrase it as something like:

```suggestion
* Stage the final binary in the ``bin`` directory, along with their run-time dependencies.
```

I'm not familiar enough with Crystal to understand what sorts of "run-time dependencies" this plugin is staging, but I'm a little hesitant about that term because it might _not_ include things like, for example, curl for a Crystal project that forks a call to curl for some reason. I believe these are things like Crystal's standard library, or other Crystal libraries brought in by code dependencies. It might even make sense to apply the KISS method:

```suggestion
* Stage the binaries in the ``bin`` directory.
```

or:

```suggestion
* Stage the build output and its dependencies generated by Crystal in the ``bin`` directory.
```
